  Once upon a time . . . a woodcutter lived happily with his wife in a pretty
little log cabin in the middle of a thick forest. Each morning he set off 
singing to work, and when he came home in the evening, a plate of hot steaming 
soup was always waiting for him. 
   One day, however, he had a strange surprise. He came upon a big fir tree 
with strange open holes on the trunk. It looked somehow different from the 
other trees, and just as he was about to chop it down, the alarmed face of an 
elf popped out of a hole.
   "What's all this banging?" asked the elf. "You're not thinking of cutting 
down this tree, are you? It's my home. I live here!" The woodcutter dropped 
his axe in astonlshment.
   "Well, I . . ." he stammered.
   "With all the other trees there are in this forest, you have to pick this 
one. Lucky I was in, or I would have found myself homeless."
   Taken aback at these words, the woodcutter qulckly recovered, for after all
the elf was quite tiny, while he himself was a big hefty chap, and he boldly 
replied: "I'll cut down any tree I like, so . . ." 
   "All right! All right!" broke in the elf. "Shall we put it this way: if you
don't cut down this tree, I grant you three wishes. Agreed?" The woodcutter 
scratched his head. 
   "Three wishes, you say? Yes, I agree." And he began to hack at another 
tree. As he worked and sweated at his task, the woodcutter kept thinking about
the magic wishes. 
   "I'll see what my wife thinks..."
   The woodcutter's wife was busily cleaning a pot outside the house when her 
husband arrived. Grabbing her round the waist, he twirled her in delight.
   "Hooray! Hooray! Our luck is in!" 
   The woman could not understand why her husband was so pleased with himself 
and she shrugged herself free. Later, however, over a glass of fine wine at 
the table, the woodcutter told his wife of his meeting with the elf, and she 
too began to picture the wonderful things that the elf's three wishes might 
give them. The woodcutter's wife took a first sip of wine from her husband's 
glass.